JAKE: Here we go.
So today I have you
hook, line and sinker,
because we are going fishing.
PAUL: Ooh.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Jake-- why, exactly?
JAKE: Well, you say, right,
that fishing is your passion?
PAUL: No.
No.
Can't eat fish, don't like
fish, don't go near fish,
don't go near anything
that lives in water.
It doesn't work for me.
JAKE: Let's quantify this.
I mean, if I show you
a picture of fish,
does your head fall off?
PAUL: No, it's like
you being near the sun.
Poof.
Bye.
JAKE: OK, yeah, fair enough.
PAUL: Yeah, we all
have our things, mate.
JAKE: Well, I've bought
all the stuff now,
so we're going to do it,
and we're going to enjoy it.
PAUL: You know what
I did recently?
I built a web app.
JAKE: Oh, well done, mate.
PAUL: I know, right.
JAKE: Congratulations.
PAUL: It's actually quite
nice to realize that my skills
haven't completely atrophied.
JAKE: Yeah, you still got it.
Well done.
PAUL: It's an app that lets
you record voice memos.
And the whole
thing-- I'm actually
quite impressed with it-- the
whole thing is 71 kilobytes.
JAKE: OK.
Does it work offline?
PAUL: Yes.
JAKE: A star.
That's all I care about.
PAUL: That is all you
actually care about.
JAKE: Well then,
let's see it then.
Show us it.
PAUL: All right.
Where is it.
Where is my phone.
Aha.
Yeah.
So you've got this-- you
can record a voice memo.
And like-- ta-daa!-- save it
and all that kind of stuff.
It's all working offline because
I'm actually in airplane mode.
Because--
JAKE: Roaming.
You don't want to--
PAUL: I'm going
to save all this.
And you can actually
listen to it and all that.
It actually works really well.
JAKE: OK.
And so the web is
perfect, then, yeah?
PAUL: I think the
problem we have
is that the browsers
themselves-- they're
used to encoding and
decoding stuff, right?
JAKE: Yeah, we got audio
element, video element,
web audio API--
PAUL: Yeah.
Web RTC also encodes
to send over the wire,
decode on the other side.
JAKE: True, true.
PAUL: Right.
But none of that's
available in JavaScript.
JAKE: I mean, the
decoder is, right?
That's web audio.
PAUL: Yeah, no, it doesn't
work with our [? gopus. ?]
Which does work with
the audio element,
so there's a bit of
an inconsistency--
JAKE: That must be
a Chrome bug, right?
Because the spec says it's fine.
PAUL: It's a bug, but it's
a feature request more
than it's a bug.
JAKE: Oh yeah.
Fair enough.
So these encodes
are surely already
in there-- in the browser
for web RTC, right?
They can already encode
speech and whatever
to send across the wire.
But there's no-- that's just
not exposed on the web at all.
PAUL: Well, sort of.
If you're in Firefox, you've
got the media recorder API,
which you can get OG
video-- it's Opus, I think,
for video and audio.
But it's not available in Chrome
or Safari or anywhere else
today.
So the net result
is, the only way
you can get the thing to save is
to actually create a WAV file.
And thankfully there are
some very skilled people
who've wrapped the whole thing
up in libraries and so on.
But in any case, the
only way you can actually
store these files and
have it usable everywhere,
is a WAV file.
JAKE: Oh, that's going to be--
PAUL: I think that's bonkers.
JAKE: So this is why I think
the stream spec is so important.
Because you will be able
to just pipe, like, a WAV
stream or whatever type into
the encoder, and get out, like,
a [? U ?] intake array of bits.
The encoded data.
PAUL: Yes.
That's part one.
I think, though, the
browser shouldn't
have special magical
privileges to encode things.
If it's encoding things,
it should, in theory,
allow developers to encode.
JAKE: Well, this is the
extensible web, right?
If that technology is
already in the browser,
it absolutely must be
available to developers.
The only excuse that you could
say to not do that is security.
And there's no security issue
with exposing an encoder.
PAUL: Exactly.
Tell you what, though--
all that aside, there's
ECMAScript six classes in
there, fat arrows, promises,
IndexedDB-- there's
loads going on in there.
All really good fun to use.
JAKE: Yeah.
PAUL: But for me the nicest
part was I tested it on Firefox,
and there are a couple
of small issues to fix.
It was pretty minor.
JAKE: Probably because
they were adhering
to the spec [INAUDIBLE].
It usually is.
PAUL: Probably.
And then somebody out of the
blue contacted me and said,
do you know what, it works
really nicely on Firefox OS.
JAKE: Oh-- that's not good.
PAUL: And it's just like,
it works on Firefox OS,
it works on Chrome, it
works on desktop, on tablet,
on the phone-- it works
on all these places.
JAKE: So how big
is the app, all in?
PAUL: 71 kilobytes.
JAKE: I think a hell of a world
for a native app-- you're going
to be hitting near a megabyte.
So this is a thing.
71 k.
It works on mobile, tablet,
desktop, Firefox OS, Chrome OS
presumably.
71 k.
PAUL: Boom.
JAKE: That's the
benefit of the web.
PAUL: I'm getting
bored of this now.
JAKE: Off you get, then.
I got fish to catch.
Nothing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]